Now that we've got our log in and sign up code working properly and very nicely with the keyboard as
well we're going to see how to display the user list for our users so that they can choose people to
view their Instagram feeds.
So I'm just going to sign up as a new user
and this will then redirect me to the user list which will populate with all the users on our app in
alphabetical order.
And there they are.
So that's all there is to it.
I think you can pretty much do this one yourself.
Do you see where you'll need to read direct to the new activity when the user signs up when they log
in.
And also if they start the app and they're already logged in.
Other than that it's just a matter of creating an array list populating it with details from a past
query and then displaying that on the list.
You know just the past queries will be a query of past users this time which is very slightly different
to a query of past objects.
But it's so similar that I'm sure you can figure it out.
So best of luck as well.
All right.
Here we are them.
I'm going to start by bringing in a new activity
from the gallery and I want an empty activity for my user list.
Now call this user list activity
and then drag in my list the
there you go.
Give it an ID of user list view.
And then before we set that up I'm going to set up our intent to jump to the user list activity and
I'm going to do that in a separate method because we're going to call it from a number of different
places.
So I will set up public FOID share user list
and we need intend for this.
So intent
which is going to be a new intent using the application context and we want to jump to use a list activity
dot class and then we don't need to send any details.
We just want to start the activity
and we want to do that in three places.
So the first is when the user is successfully signed in which is where
the second is where the user has just logged in that's here.
And the third is if the user is already logged in when they open up the app so we know how to check
for that.
We look for if past user thought get current user is not know then we'll show the user list.
All right so now when we run the app we should find that because we're locked in a ready we jumped straight
to the user list activity
Well that's compiling I will write ok to set up the user.
So let's
create a list we could use a list.
She's going to be a list view from fine view by ID.
ID dot
use a list you.
And then as usual I'll set it up with just a basic list before
we actually synchronize with our Passover.
So we'll have a list of user names.
It's going to be a new list and then we'll just add
a simple test one for now then we're going to need an array adapter
which is going to be a new array adapter and then we use this as the context Android to lay out a simple
list item one as they lay out templates and then use the names
as they list.
And then we just take our user list fee and set the adapter
array adapter.
All right let's have a quick test.
We should literally see the words test appear at the top of our list view.
After everything has been processed and there we go.
So our view is now working fine.
Let's change our code to actually populate it from our list of users.
Now this is the bit that's very slightly different to what we've done before.
So previously we had a past query using past objects.
This time we're going to be using a pass use a query which works in exactly the same way we just returning
past users rather than parse objects.
So a quick query and this time instead of a pass object query it's past user don't get query and then
the one restriction that we're going to have is that we don't want to return the current user to display
on the list.
So that's at I where and we want not equal to.
So there we go.
Not equal to.
And we want the username to be not equal to the current users username so that's past user to get current
user to get username.
I'm also going to put them in alphabetical order so I dot at ascending order by username.
So that's optional if you want to have that.
But I think it makes sense then we run our query so as before find in background with a new kind Colback
and you can see that just as before it returns a list of objects.
But this time they pass uses rather than pass objects.
So let's do a check to see first of if there's no error.
And for now if there is we'll just print a stack trace or log an error and if there isn't more check
to see if there are any objects any uses returned objects.
Our size is greater than zero.
Then we want to loop three objects.
So we're looking for past user and I'll call it user in objects
and we want to add them to our usernames array list.
So we need to define that first
so I'll define that up there and get rid of the test and then we can use user names don't add and then
we want to add the user name.
So that's just user get username simple as that.
And then
let's take our definitions of the list view and the array adapter we them up there.
And then at this point not quite at that point we want to do it when
the process is completed and we do just need to Reclast that as a final list view so that we can access
it from there.
And similarly with array adapter.
All right.
So let's have a look if we jump back over to Firefox for a moment we can see we should have quite a
few different uses for my various tests.
So those are the ones that shared.
With any luck appear in our list for now and there we go.
You can see all government nice alphabetical order and by process of elimination I must currently be
logged in as Robert 2 3 4.
And there we go.
So I'm going to make a very quick change to some of our user names just to make it slightly more friendly.
So I'm going to change a T Kersten SDF t told me we're up to Ralphy and we'll have an extra Michael
in there as well.
And then rub two three four.
I'll just make Rob.
All right.
So now we're all set up and ready to go.
We have our user list up and running.
So our next stage is going to be viewing user's photos and that of course we'll find out today in the
next video.